IDSync | Aliasing
Documentation
Developers
API References
Data Subject Request API
Platform API
Warehouse Sync API
Client SDKs
AMP
Android
Cordova
Direct Url Routing
Flutter
iOS
Roku
React Native
Unity
Xbox
Web
Xamarin
Quickstart
HTTP Quick Start
Android
Java Quick Start
iOS Quick Start
Node Quick Start
Python Quick Start
Web
Server SDKs
Media SDKs
Tools
Guides
Partners
Outbound Integrations
Kit Integrations
Migrate from Segment to mParticle
Guides
Getting Started
Platform Guide
The New mParticle Experience
Observability
Billing
Personalization
Audiences
Calculated Attributes
Predictive Audiences
Journeys
Predictive Attributes
Predict Future Behavior
Next Best Action
Analytics
Setup
Settings
Analytics Data Manager
Query Builder
Analyses
Segmentation: Basics
Segmentation: Advanced
Funnels: Basics
Funnels: Advanced
Cohorts
Journeys
Users
Dashboards
Analytics Resources
Tutorials
APIs
IDSync
Data Master
Group Identity
Data Plans
Import Data with CSV Files
Analytics (Deprecated)
Identity Providers
Settings
Developer Docs
Integrations
Data Warehouses and Data Lakes
APIs
SDKs
Developer Basics
Aliasing
Aliasing is an IDSync feature that allows you to transfer data between an anonymous and a known profile when one of your users creates or logs into an account.
Aliasing is not accessible from the mParticle UI. To use aliasing to transfer data from an anonymous user profile to a known user profile, configure your app to call the correct method in the IDSync API when the applicable action is triggered by a user (such as when a user creates or logs into an account).
Anonymous and known user profiles
A user who opens your app and is tracked by mParticle is referred to as the current user. mParticle stores data from the current user’s session in a user profile. IDSync automatically searches for the best profile to use immediately after the current user begins a session. Depending on your identity strategy, if a profile cannot be found using the available user identifiers then mParticle creates a new profile.
All user profiles can be either known or anonymous.
Known profiles
Known profiles have at least one login ID, which is a unique identifier like a customer ID, email address, or phone number. Known user profiles can only be returned in response to an identity request if the request includes at least one matching login ID.
Anonymous profiles
Anonymous profiles do not have any login IDs. Unless a new user supplies a login ID, they will always be given an anonymous profile.
Transitioning from anonymous to known
When a user supplies a login ID, IDSync transitions their profile from being anonymous to known. The default behavior for how data collected with the anonymous profile is carried over to the new known profile and whether or not the same MPID is used for the new known profile depends on your identity strategy.
Default IDSync configuration and the profile conversion strategy
The default IDSync configuration uses the profile conversion strategy. If you have explicitly selected the conversion strategy or your account uses the default configuration, then the appearance of a new login ID adds the login ID to the existing anonymous profile. This means that the new profile is now considered known, but it keeps the same MPID.
Any historical data collected with the anonymous profile persists to the known profile.
Profile link strategy
If you are using the profile link strategy, the appearance of a new login ID results in the creation of a new profile with a new MPID.
While the profile link strategy does not carry data from the anonymous to the known profile by default, you can configure your app to execute an alias request which (if successful) will attribute data from the anonymous (or source) profile to the known (destination) profile.
Make an alias request
The general process for making an alias request is the same regardless of the SDK you are using. To learn how to make an alias request with a specific SDK, refer to the SDK documentation for
,
, and
.
Remember that the mParticle SDKs always maintain a persistent “current user”, or the user actively engaging with your app. Data from the current user’s session is being associated to a profile, which is either known or anonymous.
An alias request includes:
MPID of the destination profile: the known profile
MPID of the source profile: the anonymous profile
Start time: only data collected after this time is aliased to the destination profile
End time: only data collected up to this time is aliased to the destination profile
If you do not specify the start and end time, then all data collected for the source profile will be aliased to the destination profile up to the point the user submits a login ID or your app otherwise submits an alias request.
Alias requests are most often made when a user creates or logs into an account, or whenever they provide an identifier configured as a login ID in your account’s IDSync settings. However, you can submit an alias request using the SDKs at any time.
Aliasing requirements
Supported identity strategies
Aliasing is only available to accounts configured to use either the default identity strategy, the profile link strategy, or the profile conversion strategy.
User profile requirements
For an alias request to be successful:
The source profile must not have been the source profile for a previous alias request with an overlapping start or end date.
The source profile must not have been the destination profile for a previous alias request.
The destination profile must not have been the source profile for a previous alias request.
Example aliasing workflow
1. A user first downloads your app or opens your website
The initial identification request includes only the device IDs collected automatically by the mParticle SDK
An anonymous user profile with the MPID of 1234 is created
Any events and attributes captured for the user are stored against this profile
2. The user creates an account
When the user creates an account, a login identity request is sent, including at least one login ID (e.g. an email address)
A new known user profile is created with the MPID of 5678
The login request returns objects containing information on the previous and current users. At this point, any user attributes or products in the cart (for ecommerce) captured for the anonymous user can be copied to the known user profile
3. An alias request is sent
The alias request contains four pieces of information:
The source (anonymous) user profile MPID
The destination (known) user profile MPID
A start date (optional) - only events collected after this date are copied to the new profile
An end date (optional) - only events collected before this date are copied to the new profile. The default value is the time the alias request is submitted.
If the alias request meets the validation requirements, it will be processed after a 24 hour delay. This delay allows for any late-arriving events from the source profile to be included.
Results of a successful alias request
A successful request will result in a
202 accepted
response. Errors are only returned in the cases of failed authorization or exceeded rate limits.
Information from the source profile updates the destination profile
The first seen date (a value helpful in the mParticle Audience Builder) of the source profile overwrites the first seen date of the destination profile.
All events captured for the source profile, between the start date and end date (up to a 90 day period), will be copied to the destination profile.
Any install attribution information captured for the source profile will be copied over to the destination profile.
Not all information is automatically copied
The following information is not copied as a result of an alias request:
User identifiers and device IDs are not copied to the destination profile. However, the destination profile should already contain the same device IDs as the source profile, since it should have originated from the same device.
User attributes and calculated attributes are not automatically copied as part of an aliasing request.
If you are using Data Privacy Controls, consent information is not copied. You need to reobtain consent information from your users after a successful alias request.
The mParticle SDKs provide a method for copying user attributes, identities and consent data any time the current user profile changes. For more information see the
for iOS, Android, and Web.
Status messages are added to both profiles
A status message will be added to the source profile indicating that it has been aliased and noting the mParticle ID of the destination profile.
A status message will be added to the destination profile, indicating that it has been merged and noting the mParticle ID of the source profile.
Error handling
Error Code
Description
400 Bad Request
The IDSync HTTP call failed due to an invalid request body. Inspect the
result.body
string message for more information. Below are examples of possible causes of a 400 response.
400 Bad Request
Given time range is invalid.
400 Bad Request
Source MPID is the same as the target MPID.
400 Bad Request
The request JSON is malformed or is missing required fields.
400 Bad Request
The source MPID or target MPID does not exist.
401 Bad Request
The IDSync HTTP call failed due to an authentication error. Verify that your API key is correct.
403 Forbidden
Aliasing is not provisioned for your mParticle workspace. Contact your mParticle account representative to have aliasing provisioned.
429 Too Many Requests
The IDSync HTTP call was throttled and should be retried. This may indicate a user “hotkey” or an incorrect implementation resulting in a higher than expected volume of IDSync requests.
5xx
The IDSync HTTP call failed due to an mParticle server-side issue. Check the mParticle status page if this is occuring.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
Last Updated:
February 28, 2025
Table of Contents
Anonymous and known user profiles
Known profiles
Anonymous profiles
Transitioning from anonymous to known
Default IDSync configuration and the profile conversion strategy
Profile link strategy
Make an alias request
Aliasing requirements
Supported identity strategies
User profile requirements
Example aliasing workflow
1. A user first downloads your app or opens your website
2. The user creates an account
3. An alias request is sent
Results of a successful alias request
Information from the source profile updates the destination profile
Not all information is automatically copied
Status messages are added to both profiles
Error handling
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie settings
Accept all cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link.
Allow all
Manage Consent Preferences
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Always Active
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Under the CPRA, you have the right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of your personal information to third parties. These cookies collect information for analytics and to personalize your experience with targeted ads. You may exercise your right to opt out of the sale or sharing of personal information by using this toggle switch. If you opt out we will not be able to offer you personalized ads and will not hand over your personal information to any third parties. Additionally, you may contact our legal department for further clarification about your rights as a California consumer by using this Exercise My Rights link.If you have enabled privacy controls on your browser (such as a plugin), we have to take that as a valid request to opt-out. Therefore we would not be able to track your activity through the web. This may affect our ability to personalize ads according to your preferences.
Targeting Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
Performance Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
Back Button
Cookie List
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
Confirm my choices