Getting Started | Create an Input
Documentation
Developers
API References
Data Subject Request API
Platform API
Warehouse Sync API
Client SDKs
AMP
Android
Cordova
Direct Url Routing
Flutter
iOS
Roku
React Native
Unity
Xbox
Web
Xamarin
Quickstart
HTTP Quick Start
Android
Java Quick Start
iOS Quick Start
Node Quick Start
Python Quick Start
Web
Server SDKs
Media SDKs
Tools
Guides
Partners
Outbound Integrations
Kit Integrations
Migrate from Segment to mParticle
Guides
Getting Started
Platform Guide
The New mParticle Experience
Observability
Billing
Personalization
Audiences
Calculated Attributes
Predictive Audiences
Journeys
Predictive Attributes
Predict Future Behavior
Next Best Action
Analytics
Setup
Settings
Analytics Data Manager
Query Builder
Analyses
Segmentation: Basics
Segmentation: Advanced
Funnels: Basics
Funnels: Advanced
Cohorts
Journeys
Users
Dashboards
Analytics Resources
Tutorials
APIs
IDSync
Data Master
Group Identity
Data Plans
Import Data with CSV Files
Analytics (Deprecated)
Identity Providers
Settings
Developer Docs
Integrations
Data Warehouses and Data Lakes
APIs
SDKs
Developer Basics
Create an Input
Introduction
The purpose of this guide is to walk you through the basic steps of setting up mParticle in your app, unlocking core functionality, and troubleshooting common issues. Along the way, you’ll cover some important concepts you need to understand to be successful with mParticle.
This is not a complete guide to all of mParticle’s features and capabilities. If you already know your way around mParticle and you’re looking for in-depth docs, head to our
or
sections.
Examples
The tutorials in this guide follow the process of setting up mParticle in the mPTravel app: a mobile and web app that sells luxury travel packages to its users.
Later on in this guide, you’ll learn about sending data from mParticle to some of our many integration partners. As examples, the tutorials use services which are simple to set up and verify, and which offer a free account tier, so that you will be able follow the examples exactly if you wish. However, mParticle is agnostic about which integrations you choose and you can follow the same basic steps from this guide to implement any of our integrations.
Inputs and Outputs
One of the key functions of mParticle is to receive your data from wherever it originates, and send it wherever it needs to go. The sources of your data are inputs and the service or app where it is forwarded are outputs. A connection is a combination of an input and output.
Inputs include:
Apps or services built on any platform we support, such as iOS, Android, or Web. You can view the full list in
SETUP > Inputs
in the PLATFORMS tab.
Data feeds of any other data you want to send into mParticle. This could be data you have collected yourself or from a feed partner. Once configured, feed inputs are listed in
SETUP > Inputs
on the FEEDS tab.
Outputs may be configured for events, audiences, cookie syncs, or data subject requests depending on what the output supports. You can see the list of configured outputs in
SETUP > Outputs
or
SETUP > Data Warehouses
. Outputs include:
Analytics partners such as Indicative
Advertising partners such as Facebook
In-app messaging partners such as Braze
Data Warehouse partners, such as Amazon Redshift, Google BigQuery, or Snowflake
To get started with mParticle, you need some data, which means you need to create at least one input.
Create Access Credentials
The first thing you need to do is to to create a set of access credentials that will allow a client-side SDK or a server-side application to forward data to this workspace.
Login to your mParticle account. If you’re just getting started, your first workspace is created for you. The first screen you see is an overview of activity in the workspace. Since you haven’t yet sent any data, there’s nothing to report, so far.
Navigate to
Setup > Inputs
in the left column. Here you can see each platform type accepted by mParticle. Different platforms are associated with different sets of metadata, such as device identifiers, and most outputs only accept data from a limited set of platforms, so it is important to select the right platform. To capture data from your native Android app, choose
Android
. Just click the
+
next to your chosen platform.
Click
Issue Keys
.
Copy and save the generated Key and Secret.
About Access Credentials
mParticle labels the credentials you create for an integration the key and secret, but they are not exactly like an API key and secret, since you embed these credentials in the app. However, this is not the security risk that exposing API credentials would be:
The client-side key and secret can’t read data from the system.
You can
to stop any traffic that doesn’t match the data you expect as defined in your schema.
Most anonymous client-server architectures, including Adobe, Braze, Firebase, Google Analytics, and Segment don’t have per-session or per-instance credentials, nor does mParticle.
Install and Initialize an mParticle SDK
You need a developer to help you install and initialize an SDK. See the Getting Started guides for the
,
or
SDKs to get set up before continuing.
Verify: Look for Incoming Data in the Live Stream
Navigate to
Activity > Live Stream
in the left column. The Live Stream lets you inspect all incoming data from your development environments. It’s an easy way to check that you have correctly initialized mParticle in your app. When you first open up the Live Stream, it will be empty, as we haven’t yet started sending data.
Start up a development build of your app (get a developer to help you if necessary). The mParticle SDKs automatically collect and forward data about installs and user sessions, so just by opening a development build of your app, you should start to see data in the Live Stream.
Advanced Platform Configuration Settings
For the iOS, Android, tvOS, and Web platforms, some advanced configuration settings are available. To change these settings, navigate to
Setup > Inputs
in the left column and select either iOS, Android, tvOS, or Web from the list of platforms.
Expand the
Advanced Settings
by clicking the + icon.
Restrict Device ID by Limit Ad Tracking
iOS, Android, and tvOS (Apple TV) devices allow users to limit the collection of advertising IDs. Advertising IDs are unique identifiers you may use to associate event and user data with a specific device. For both iOS and Android devices, if a user has not provided explicit consent to share their device’s advertising ID, then the value of that ID is set to an all-zero value.
By checking
Restrict Device ID by Limit Ad Tracking
, mParticle will not collect advertising IDs from users who have enabled the Limit Ad Tracking setting on their device.
Remember, mParticle will collect advertising IDs for both iOS and Android devices, regardless of whether or not a user has enabled the Limit Ad Tracking setting on their device. However, the IDs collected from users who have opted out will be all-zero values.
Following are descriptions of Apple and Google’s policies for device advertising IDs:
iOS Advertising IDs
After the release of iOS 14.5, Apple introduced the App Tracking Transparency (ATT) framework, which requires app developers to request users’ explicit consent to share their advertising IDs. If a user of your app has not provided this consent, Apple’s advertising ID (IDFA) will be set to all an all-zero value:
00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
. Read more about Apple advertising identifiers
.
For more information about the ATT framework, visit the
.
Android Advertising IDs
Google allows Android users to opt out from sharing their devices’ advertising IDs. Similar to Apple’s policy, Google will set a user’s advertising ID (GAID or AAID) to an all-zero value if that user has opted out from sharing their ID. Read more about Google’s advertising identifiers in
.
Collect Integration-Specific Identifiers
The Web SDK can collect integration-specific identifiers to enrich the user data forwarded to your connected outputs.
When
Collect Integration-Specific Identifiers
is checked, these integration-specific identifiers are collected and used to enrich your user data to help optimize the match rate of your audiences in downstream tools. Currently, these identifiers include Facebook’s
fields.
Supported Integrations
Vendor
Identifier
Collection Method
Maps to
fbclid
url query parameter
Facebook.ClickId
fbc
browser cookie
Facebook.ClickId
fbp
browser cookie
Facebook.BrowserId
gclid
url query parameter
GoogleEnhancedConversions.Gclid
gwbraid
url query parameter
GoogleEnhancedConversions.Gbraid
wbraid
url query parameter
GoogleEnhancedConversions.Wbraid
Troubleshoot
If you don’t see data appearing in the Live Stream within the first few minutes after opening a development build:
Check that you have copied your Key and Secret correctly
Check that you have properly included the mParticle SDK in your project and it is correctly initialized. The necessary steps will differ depending on the platform. Check our
,
and
docs for more.
Next Steps
Congratulations, you have created a working data input. Now it’s time to
.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
Last Updated:
February 28, 2025
Table of Contents
Introduction
Examples
Inputs and Outputs
Create Access Credentials
About Access Credentials
Install and Initialize an mParticle SDK
Verify: Look for Incoming Data in the Live Stream
Advanced Platform Configuration Settings
Restrict Device ID by Limit Ad Tracking
Collect Integration-Specific Identifiers
Troubleshoot
Next Steps
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie settings
Accept all cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link.
Allow all
Manage Consent Preferences
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Always Active
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Under the CPRA, you have the right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of your personal information to third parties. These cookies collect information for analytics and to personalize your experience with targeted ads. You may exercise your right to opt out of the sale or sharing of personal information by using this toggle switch. If you opt out we will not be able to offer you personalized ads and will not hand over your personal information to any third parties. Additionally, you may contact our legal department for further clarification about your rights as a California consumer by using this Exercise My Rights link.If you have enabled privacy controls on your browser (such as a plugin), we have to take that as a valid request to opt-out. Therefore we would not be able to track your activity through the web. This may affect our ability to personalize ads according to your preferences.
Targeting Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
Performance Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
Back Button
Cookie List
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
Confirm my choices