Guides | Cross-Account Audience Sharing
Documentation
Developers
API References
Data Subject Request API
Platform API
Warehouse Sync API
Client SDKs
AMP
Android
Cordova
Direct Url Routing
Flutter
iOS
Roku
React Native
Unity
Xbox
Web
Xamarin
Quickstart
HTTP Quick Start
Android
Java Quick Start
iOS Quick Start
Node Quick Start
Python Quick Start
Web
Server SDKs
Media SDKs
Tools
Guides
Partners
Outbound Integrations
Kit Integrations
Migrate from Segment to mParticle
Guides
Getting Started
Platform Guide
The New mParticle Experience
Observability
Billing
Personalization
Audiences
Calculated Attributes
Predictive Audiences
Journeys
Predictive Attributes
Predict Future Behavior
Next Best Action
Analytics
Setup
Settings
Analytics Data Manager
Query Builder
Analyses
Segmentation: Basics
Segmentation: Advanced
Funnels: Basics
Funnels: Advanced
Cohorts
Journeys
Users
Dashboards
Analytics Resources
Tutorials
APIs
IDSync
Data Master
Group Identity
Data Plans
Import Data with CSV Files
Analytics (Deprecated)
Identity Providers
Settings
Developer Docs
Integrations
Data Warehouses and Data Lakes
APIs
SDKs
Developer Basics
Cross-Account Audience Sharing
The cross-account audience sharing feature allows you to share real-time or standard audience data between accounts within your organization and offers detailed control over exactly what data is shared.
You can choose to share audience data broadly within your organization, or to provide access to only as much data as is needed for a campaign. This feature does not share any data outside your organization, except where explicitly connected to a downstream audience integration.
Audience sharing permissions
Permissions allow the account which owns an audience to define what data is shared with any receiving accounts.
Permissions can be set per-audience for each account in your organization.
Permission level
Access details
Owner
The account that created and maintains the audience. This account has full access to the audience, can connect it to an output and update the audience definition. Users with admin-level access to this account can also set the permission level allowed to other accounts.
Private
The audience is not visible from the receiving account
View only
The audience is visible from the receiving account but cannot be connected to any audience outputs.
Usable
The audience is visible from the receiving account and can be connected to any audience output, but the audience definition cannot be edited.
Example
The mParticle organization has two accounts: mPTravel and mPDine. Cross-account audience sharing is enabled.
mPTravel sets the following audience-level sharing permissions:
The “Potential Parisians” audience is private from mPDine.
The “Aspiring Athenians” audience is view only for mPDine.
The “Ibiza Dreamers” audience is “usable” for mPDine.
A user in the mPDine account will be able to:
See the “Aspiring Athenians” and “Ibiza Dreamers” audiences in their
Audiences
view.
Connect the “Ibiza Dreamers” audience to an audience output.
Audience Owner
Create default audience-level permissions
From your Settings page, navigate to the
Audience Settings
tab. From here you can view and edit current default audience-level sharing settings or add new defaults.
Note that any changes to your defaults will
only
be applied to any new audience created. Changing your defaults won’t update existing sharing settings for current audiences.
See which audiences are shared
View and edit the sharing settings for each audience from the main
Audiences
view.
Create or update a shared audience
To share an audience or to update the access settings for a shared audience, start by navigating to the main
Audiences
view.
Select the audience you would like to change.
Click the details icon to view the
Audience Details
.
Click the gear cog next to
Access Levels
to view the access sharing settings.
Select an account within your organization to share the audience with by clicking the
+
button. You can change the
for each account via the dropdown menu under
Shared Level
.
Click
Save
to save any changes.
Respond to an access request
Users of an account with “view only” access are able to submit a request for additional access. A notification email is sent to the creator of the audience. If you choose to grant the request you can update the audience permissions
. You can also seek clarification from the requester by replying to the email.
Audience Receiver
See which audiences are shared
You can access all audiences that are shared with you via the
Shared with me
tab of the
Audiences
page. The
Access
column shows the level of access your account as been granted.
Request ‘usable’ access for a ‘view only’ audience
If you have “view only” access for an audience, you can request a different level of access.
To make a request you must provide:
The sharing level you are requesting.
The date range of the campaign you are proposing.
Details of the proposed campaign.
Activation details, including the proposed campaign platforms.
The owner of the audience will be automatically notified of your request by email and may request further details by email reply.
Identity-level permissions
In addition to setting access permission for each audience, you can choose whether to make each identity type available to each account when you share audiences.
For example, you can choose to make Google Advertising ID and Apple IDFA available to a particular account, but email unavailable. These settings are at the account level and apply to all audiences shared from the account. These identity filters apply
only
when the user hasn’t already been seen in the receiving account.
Only users with Admin access can manage identity-level permissions.
Navigate to your
Settings
page.
Navigate to the
Identity Settings
tab and scroll to the
Identity Sharing
heading. From here you can see how many accounts have been granted permission to receive each identity type, and add new permissions.
For each identity type, you can view a list of current permissions and add or update permissions by account.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
Last Updated:
February 28, 2025
Table of Contents
Audience sharing permissions
Example
Audience Owner
Create default audience-level permissions
See which audiences are shared
Create or update a shared audience
Respond to an access request
Audience Receiver
See which audiences are shared
Request ‘usable’ access for a ‘view only’ audience
Identity-level permissions
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie settings
Accept all cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link.
Allow all
Manage Consent Preferences
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Always Active
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Under the CPRA, you have the right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of your personal information to third parties. These cookies collect information for analytics and to personalize your experience with targeted ads. You may exercise your right to opt out of the sale or sharing of personal information by using this toggle switch. If you opt out we will not be able to offer you personalized ads and will not hand over your personal information to any third parties. Additionally, you may contact our legal department for further clarification about your rights as a California consumer by using this Exercise My Rights link.If you have enabled privacy controls on your browser (such as a plugin), we have to take that as a valid request to opt-out. Therefore we would not be able to track your activity through the web. This may affect our ability to personalize ads according to your preferences.
Targeting Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
Performance Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
Back Button
Cookie List
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
Confirm my choices