Guides | Feeds
Documentation
Developers
API References
Data Subject Request API
Platform API
Warehouse Sync API
Client SDKs
AMP
Android
Cordova
Direct Url Routing
Flutter
iOS
Roku
React Native
Unity
Xbox
Web
Xamarin
Quickstart
HTTP Quick Start
Android
Java Quick Start
iOS Quick Start
Node Quick Start
Python Quick Start
Web
Server SDKs
Media SDKs
Tools
Guides
Partners
Outbound Integrations
Kit Integrations
Migrate from Segment to mParticle
Guides
Getting Started
Platform Guide
The New mParticle Experience
Observability
Billing
Personalization
Audiences
Calculated Attributes
Predictive Audiences
Journeys
Predictive Attributes
Predict Future Behavior
Next Best Action
Analytics
Setup
Settings
Analytics Data Manager
Query Builder
Analyses
Segmentation: Basics
Segmentation: Advanced
Funnels: Basics
Funnels: Advanced
Cohorts
Journeys
Users
Dashboards
Analytics Resources
Tutorials
APIs
IDSync
Data Master
Group Identity
Data Plans
Import Data with CSV Files
Analytics (Deprecated)
Identity Providers
Settings
Developer Docs
Integrations
Data Warehouses and Data Lakes
APIs
SDKs
Developer Basics
Feeds
Introduction
Feeds are a type of integration that allow a third party service to forward event data to an mParticle workspace. Feeds can supplement data collected directly from your app platforms—via mParticle’s SDKs or Events API—with additional data available only from an external source.
Data available from feeds may include:
Attribution data
Location and geo-fencing data
Actions taken by users in response to email and push campaigns
Customer interactions outside your app, such as customer support
Data about your app users purchased from a third-party
Forwarding data from feeds
When planning a feed implementation, it is important to consider if and how you want the data to be forwarded to any event outputs. Event integrations connect an ‘input’, which is a single platform or feed, to a single ‘output’.
Most outputs can only accept connections from a limited set of platforms. When setting up connections from a feed, you need to know that some feeds can “act-as” iOS, Android, Web, or other platforms.
“Act-as” feeds
Act-as feeds are feeds which mParticle can treat as if they belonged to a single platform. For example, if a feed can “act as” iOS, you can connect the feed to any output that accepts data from the iOS platform.
When you configure an act-as feed, you will need to select the platform you want the feed to act as:
You can connect an act-as feed to any output that can support the platform it is configured to act as.
Note that for act-as feeds, if you wish to capture data for multiple platforms, you will need to configure multiple instances of the feed — one for each platform.
“Unbound” feeds
If you do not see an option to select an “act-as” platform when you configure a feed, the data from that feed is treated as “unbound”: not tied to a particular platform. For example, a feed that forwards data about user actions in response to an email campaign will be an unbound feed. These events don’t specifically belong to a platform, like iOS or Android, and won’t have the necessary identifiers to be processed as iOS or Android events.
Outputs that only support iOS / Android / Web will not accept data from unbound feeds. However:
Unbound feeds can still be forwarded to Data Warehouse outputs and webhook outputs, like Amazon S3.
Events from unbound feeds can be used to power audience selection criteria.
Some unbound feeds primarily forward user attributes. User attributes updated by a feed can still be forwarded to event output partners through the enrichment process.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
Last Updated:
February 28, 2025
Table of Contents
Introduction
Forwarding data from feeds
“Act-as” feeds
“Unbound” feeds
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie settings
Accept all cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link.
Allow all
Manage Consent Preferences
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Always Active
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Under the CPRA, you have the right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of your personal information to third parties. These cookies collect information for analytics and to personalize your experience with targeted ads. You may exercise your right to opt out of the sale or sharing of personal information by using this toggle switch. If you opt out we will not be able to offer you personalized ads and will not hand over your personal information to any third parties. Additionally, you may contact our legal department for further clarification about your rights as a California consumer by using this Exercise My Rights link.If you have enabled privacy controls on your browser (such as a plugin), we have to take that as a valid request to opt-out. Therefore we would not be able to track your activity through the web. This may affect our ability to personalize ads according to your preferences.
Targeting Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
Performance Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
Back Button
Cookie List
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
Confirm my choices