Getting Started | Start capturing data
Documentation
Developers
API References
Data Subject Request API
Platform API
Warehouse Sync API
Client SDKs
AMP
Android
Cordova
Direct Url Routing
Flutter
iOS
Roku
React Native
Unity
Xbox
Web
Xamarin
Quickstart
HTTP Quick Start
Android
Java Quick Start
iOS Quick Start
Node Quick Start
Python Quick Start
Web
Server SDKs
Media SDKs
Tools
Guides
Partners
Outbound Integrations
Kit Integrations
Migrate from Segment to mParticle
Guides
Getting Started
Platform Guide
The New mParticle Experience
Observability
Billing
Personalization
Audiences
Calculated Attributes
Predictive Audiences
Journeys
Predictive Attributes
Predict Future Behavior
Next Best Action
Analytics
Setup
Settings
Analytics Data Manager
Query Builder
Analyses
Segmentation: Basics
Segmentation: Advanced
Funnels: Basics
Funnels: Advanced
Cohorts
Journeys
Users
Dashboards
Analytics Resources
Tutorials
APIs
IDSync
Data Master
Group Identity
Data Plans
Import Data with CSV Files
Analytics (Deprecated)
Identity Providers
Settings
Developer Docs
Integrations
Data Warehouses and Data Lakes
APIs
SDKs
Developer Basics
Start capturing data
After you create an input, you can begin capturing data.
Prerequisites
Before you start this activity, you should have already:
.
Data in mParticle
mParticle collects two important kinds of data:
Event data
Event data is about actions taken by a user in your app. Some events are collected automatically by mParticle’s native SDKs. These include the Session Start events you saw in the Live stream when you first
. Other events need to be captured by writing code in your app. Of these, the most significant are:
Screen/Page Views
- keep track of where a user is in your app
Custom Events
- track any actions the user might take in your app, such as clicking a button or watching a video.
Commerce Events
- track purchases and other product-related activity.
User data
mParticle also captures data about your user, including their identities, information about the device they are using and any custom attributes you set. As with event data, some user data, such as information about the devices they use, is captured automatically by mParticle’s native SDKs. Two important types of user data must be captured by writing code in your app:
User identities
are unique identifiers for your user, like an email address or customer ID. These are different from the device identities collected automatically by the SDKs, which don’t identify an individual person but a particular cell phone, browser session, or some other device.
User identities help mParticle keep track of unique users of your app and allow you to track a user’s activity over time and across different devices. To learn a lot more about user and device identities, read our
guide. For now, you just need to know that a user identity is a way of identifying a
person
, independently of the
device
they are currently using.
User Attributes
are key-value pairs that can store any custom data about your user. The value of a user attribute can be:
A string
A number
A list
A boolean value (
true
or
false
)
null
- attributes with a
null
value function as ‘tags’, and can be used to sort your users into categories.
Capture User and Event Data
To start capturing data you will need to go back to your app code. In
you should have installed and initialized the mParticle SDK in at least one of your app platforms. This means you’re already set up to capture Session Start and Session End events, as well as basic data about the device. Grab a friendly developer again, if you need one, and try to add some additional user and event data to your implementation. Here are a few things you might try, with links to the appropriate developer docs:
Add a Customer ID or Email Address for a user.
/
/
Create a custom user attribute that tells you something about a user. For example:
status: "premium"
.
/
/
Create a page or screen view event that captures the name of a page or screen being viewed.
/
/
Create a custom event to track a user action in your app. Include some custom attributes. For example, the mPTravel app sends a custom event when a user views one of its content videos. The event is called “Play Video” and it has two custom attributes: the
category
of content, and the travel
destination
the video promotes. Later on, you’ll see how events like these can be used to target custom messaging.
/
/
Create a purchase event - track a purchase using mParticle’s commerce APIs.
/
/
Verify: Look for incoming data in the Live Stream
Once you’ve added code to your app to start collecting some basic data, start up a development build of your app again and trigger some events. Have another look at the Live Stream. You should start to see new event batches, with the individual events you have added to your app.
Troubleshoot
If you have at least some data in your Live Stream, such as the session start and session end messages generated in the
, but your screen views, custom events or purchases aren’t showing, it’s likely that there is an issue with your app code.
Check that your code is correctly formed, and that the methods which send events to mParticle are actually triggered by user activity in your app.
Review your development environment’s logs. These will show when an event is sent to mParticle.
Next steps
Excellent, you’ve started collecting real custom datapoints from your app. At this point you might want to take a quick break to:
Explore the capabilities of the
Learn more about the
in mParticle.
Now that you’re collecting data, it’s time to send it on by
.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
Last Updated:
February 28, 2025
Table of Contents
Prerequisites
Data in mParticle
Event data
User data
Capture User and Event Data
Verify: Look for incoming data in the Live Stream
Troubleshoot
Next steps
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie settings
Accept all cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link.
Allow all
Manage Consent Preferences
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Always Active
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Under the CPRA, you have the right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of your personal information to third parties. These cookies collect information for analytics and to personalize your experience with targeted ads. You may exercise your right to opt out of the sale or sharing of personal information by using this toggle switch. If you opt out we will not be able to offer you personalized ads and will not hand over your personal information to any third parties. Additionally, you may contact our legal department for further clarification about your rights as a California consumer by using this Exercise My Rights link.If you have enabled privacy controls on your browser (such as a plugin), we have to take that as a valid request to opt-out. Therefore we would not be able to track your activity through the web. This may affect our ability to personalize ads according to your preferences.
Targeting Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
Performance Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
Back Button
Cookie List
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
Confirm my choices