Getting Started | Transform and Enhance Your Data
Documentation
Developers
API References
Data Subject Request API
Platform API
Warehouse Sync API
Client SDKs
AMP
Android
Cordova
Direct Url Routing
Flutter
iOS
Roku
React Native
Unity
Xbox
Web
Xamarin
Quickstart
HTTP Quick Start
Android
Java Quick Start
iOS Quick Start
Node Quick Start
Python Quick Start
Web
Server SDKs
Media SDKs
Tools
Guides
Partners
Outbound Integrations
Kit Integrations
Migrate from Segment to mParticle
Guides
Getting Started
Platform Guide
The New mParticle Experience
Observability
Billing
Personalization
Audiences
Calculated Attributes
Predictive Audiences
Journeys
Predictive Attributes
Predict Future Behavior
Next Best Action
Analytics
Setup
Settings
Analytics Data Manager
Query Builder
Analyses
Segmentation: Basics
Segmentation: Advanced
Funnels: Basics
Funnels: Advanced
Cohorts
Journeys
Users
Dashboards
Analytics Resources
Tutorials
APIs
IDSync
Data Master
Group Identity
Data Plans
Import Data with CSV Files
Analytics (Deprecated)
Identity Providers
Settings
Developer Docs
Integrations
Data Warehouses and Data Lakes
APIs
SDKs
Developer Basics
Transform and Enhance Your Data
If you’ve followed our guide this far, you have a firm grounding in the basics of mParticle. Now you’re ready to use some of our advanced and premium features to transform, enrich and enhance your data. Here are a few suggestions for where you might want to explore next.
Establish your Identity Strategy
This guide has
collecting identities, such as email addresses, for your users. mParticle’s IDSync feature gives you a lot of control over how you identify and track your users over time, and selecting an Identity Strategy is one of the most important decisions you need to make when implementing mParticle. Read our full
for more.
Add more sources
For most mParticle clients, the primary sources of data are native and web apps, instrumented with the mParticle SDK, but you can also use mParticle to leverage other sources of data to build a more complete picture of your users:
The
can be used to send supplementary server-side data.
Our main
and
SDKs can also be instrumented in AppleTV and FireTV apps, and we publish independent SDKs for
and
.
If you use a cross-platform development framework, you can use our libraries for
,
,
, and
to interface with our native SDKs.
Use Feeds to bring in data from other services.
Explore advanced Audience features
If you want to compare different messaging platforms or strategies, you can use mParticle to conduct an
by splitting an audience into two or more variations and connecting each to different outputs.
The more specific your audiences, the more you are likely to need to create. If you have a large number of audiences to forward, use
workflow to speed things up.
Transform your Data
One of the core benefits of mParticle is the ability to capture data once and forward it to multiple outputs. However, you probably don’t want to send
all
your data to
every
output. mParticle provides you with a full set of tools to filter and transform your data. Use these tools to control the flow of Personally Identifiable Information (PII), to customize the data you send to each output and to control your costs.
The
allows you to individually filter each data point for each output.
User Splits allow you to test competing services by dividing your users into groups and connecting each group to different outputs.
allow you to block data to an output according to simple predefined rules.
allows you to send only a subset of your data to a given output. This is usually done to control costs for services that charge according to data volume or unique user counts.
For advanced transformations, the
feature allows you to host a custom function on AWS Lambda which can change almost any aspect of your data.
Manage your GDPR Obligations
If you have users in the European Union, you may have obligations as a Data Controller under the General Data Processing Regulation. mParticle provides tools, available as premium features, to help you manage two aspects of GDPR compliance:
Know your limits
Part of the purpose of mParticle is to allow you to maximize leverage of your data without compromising performance. In order to protect the performance of both your app and the mParticle dashboard, we impose certain limits on the data you can send. If you’re a dashboard user, you can read a brief summary of the default limits,
. If you need the full picture, you can read our
.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
Last Updated:
February 28, 2025
Table of Contents
Establish your Identity Strategy
Add more sources
Explore advanced Audience features
Transform your Data
Manage your GDPR Obligations
Know your limits
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie settings
Accept all cookies
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link.
Allow all
Manage Consent Preferences
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Always Active
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Share Or Sale of Personal Data
Under the CPRA, you have the right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of your personal information to third parties. These cookies collect information for analytics and to personalize your experience with targeted ads. You may exercise your right to opt out of the sale or sharing of personal information by using this toggle switch. If you opt out we will not be able to offer you personalized ads and will not hand over your personal information to any third parties. Additionally, you may contact our legal department for further clarification about your rights as a California consumer by using this Exercise My Rights link.If you have enabled privacy controls on your browser (such as a plugin), we have to take that as a valid request to opt-out. Therefore we would not be able to track your activity through the web. This may affect our ability to personalize ads according to your preferences.
Targeting Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
Performance Cookies
Switch Label
label
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
Back Button
Cookie List
Search Icon
Filter Icon
Clear
checkbox label
label
Apply
Cancel
Consent
Leg.Interest
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
checkbox label
label
Confirm my choices