Unify Onboarding Guide | Segment Documentation
/
/
Unify Onboarding Guide
Unify Onboarding Guide
Free x
Team x
Business ✓
+
Unify ✓
Unify requires a Business tier account and is included with Engage.
See the
, or
.
This guide walks you through the set up process for a simple Unify space, which you can use if your Segment implementation is simple. If your implementation is complex, you can use this to demonstrate and test Unify before working on a more complex configuration.
If you’re using Engage, visit the
for additional steps to create audiences, connect to destinations, and more.
Unify configuration requirements
To configure and use Unify, you need the following:
A Segment account and Workspace.
Events flowing into Connections
from your digital properties where most of your valuable user behavior occurs.
Unify or Engage identity admin access.
You must have edit access to identity resolution rules. You can check your permissions by navigating to
in your workspace settings. See the
for more details.
Step 1: Create a new Developer space
When you first start working with Unify, you should start by creating a “Developer” space. This is your experimental and test environment while you learn more about how Unify works. You can validate that identity resolution is working correctly in the Developer space, and then apply those changes to your
Production
space once you’re sure everything is working as expected.
This two-space method prevents you from making untested configuration changes that immediately affect production data.
Step 2: Invite teammates to your Segment space
You probably have teammates who help set up your Segment Workspace with the data you need. Invite them to your Unify dev space and grant them access to the space. Navigate to
in your workspace settings to add them.
Step 3: Connect production sources
From your Segment space, navigate to
Unify settings
and click
Profile sources
.
On the screen that appears, choose one or two production sources from your Connections workspace.
Segment recommends connecting your production website or App source as a great starting point.
If the source you want to add doesn’t appear on the list, then check if the source is enabled. If the source is enabled, verify that you have set up a connection policy which enforces that you can only add sources with specific labels to this space. Read more about Segment’s connection policy in the
docs.
Tip:
It sounds a little counter- intuitive to connect a production source to a developer space, but your production sources have rich user data in them, which is what you need to build and validate user profiles.
Once you select sources, Segment starts a replay of one month of historical data from these sources into your Unify space. Segment does this step first so you have some user data to build your first profiles.
The replay usually takes several hours, but the duration will vary depending on how much data you have sent through these sources in the past one month. When the replay finishes, you are notified in the Sources tab under Settings, shown below.
Note
: Data replays start with the earliest (oldest) chronological events in the one month window, and finish with the most recent. Don’t continue to the next step until all replays are marked complete. If you do, the data in your Unify data will be stale.
Once the Source(s) finish replaying, data from your connected Sources flows into Unify in near real time, just like it does for sources in your Segment workspace.
Step 4: Check your profile data
Once the replay finishes, you can see the data replayed into Unify using the Profile explorer. You should have a lot! The data should include information from multiple sources and multiple sessions, all resolved into a single profile per user.
Before you continue, check a few user profiles to make sure they show an accurate and recent snapshot of your users.
A good test is to look at
your own
user profile, and maybe some colleagues’ profiles. Look in the Profile explorer for your Profile, and look at your event history, custom traits and identifiers. If these identifiers look correct across a few different profiles (and you can verify that they are all correct), then you’re ready to create an audience.
If your user profiles look wrong, or you aren’t confident users are being accurately defined and merged, stop here and troubleshoot. It’s important to have accurate identity resolution before you continue. See the
to better understand how it works, and why you may be running into problems. (Still need help?
for assistance.)
Identify events triggered by a user don’t appear in the Events tab of their profile. However, the traits from these events are still assigned to the profile. You can view them under the Traits tab.
Step 5: Create your production space
Once you validate that your data is flowing through Unify, you’re ready to create a Production space. Segment recommends that you repeat the same steps outlined above, focusing on your production use cases and data sources.
If you’re using Engage, view additional steps to complete your space set up in the
.
You can rename the Segment space UI name, but can’t modify the space slug. As a result, you can’t change the URL of a space.
Yes
No
or
Yes
No
this doc?